OCPBUGS#27147: Doc improvements in "Creating a Logical Volume Manager cluster on a single-node OpenShift worker node" proc (#70232)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/lvms-about-lvmcluster-cr.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-lvmcluster_{context}"]

> = About the LVMCluster custom resource

Author: Based on the doc guidelines, no capitalization is preferred.
PTAL - https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc

> After you have installed {lvms}, you must create an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) on a worked node.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

You can configure the `LVMCluster` CR to perform the following actions:

> * Create LVM volume groups.

Author: Updated it as follows:
"Create LVM volume groups that you can use to provision persistent volume claims (PVCs).
Excluded the "CSIDriver" as it might be information overload in the context of this module.

> * Configure a list of devices that you want to add to an LVM volume group. 

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

* Configure the requirements to select the nodes on which you want to create an LVM volume group (VG), and the thin pool configuration for the VG.
* Force wipe the selected devices.

You can create an `LVMCluster` CR using the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) or the {product-title} web console.

include::snippets/lvms-creating-lvmcluster.adoc[]

The `LVMCluster` CR contains the following fields:

`deviceClasses`:: Contains the configuration to assign the local storage devices to the LVM volume groups. 
+

> To create multiple device storage classes, create an array for each storage class. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create multiple device storage classes, create a deviceClass for each storage class. 
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+

> If you add or remove a `deviceClass`, then the update reflects in the `LVMCluster` CR only after deleting and recreating the `TopoLVM-Node` pod. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you add or remove a `deviceClass` after already having setup deviceClasses previously, then the update reflects in the `LVMCluster` CR only after deleting and recreating the `TopoLVM-Node` pod. 
```

Author: Updated it as follows:
"After creating an `LVMCluster` CR, if you add or remove a device class, the update reflects in the `LVMCluster` CR only after deleting and recreating the `TopoLVM-Node` pod."

`name`:: Specify a name for the LVM volume group. 
+

> To recover VGs from the previous {lvms} installation, you must set this field to the name of the VG that you want to recover. You can only recover the VGs but not the logical volume associated with the VG.

Reviewer: Where did you get this information? @suleymanakbas91 maybe not factual, but not sure about this.

Author: This info was added for - [TELCODOCS-1626](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/TELCODOCS-1626)

Reviewer 2: Yes, the name of the device class must match the name of the existing VG for LVMS to pick it up.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Before recovering the VGs from the previous {lvms} installation, ensure that the following conditions are met:

* VGs must not be corrupted.
* VGs must have the `lvms` tag. For more information on adding tags to LVMS objects, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/configuring_and_managing_logical_volumes/grouping-lvm-objects-with-tags_configuring-and-managing-logical-volumes#doc-wrapper[Grouping LVM objects with tags].
====

`fstype`:: Set this field to `ext4` or `xfs`. By default, this field is set to `xfs`.

`default`:: Set this field to `true` to indicate that a `deviceClass` is the default. Else, you can set it to `false`. You can only configure a single default `deviceClass`. 

> `nodeSelector`:: Contains the configuration to choose the nodes on which you want to create the LVM volume group. If this field is empty, all nodes are considered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nodeSelector`:: Contains the configuration to choose the nodes on which you want to create the LVM volume group. If this field is empty, all nodes without no-schedule taints are considered.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
If any of the conditions required to add the device to the LVM volume group is not met, {lvms} ignores the device without causing an error. 
        
`forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData`:: To force wipe the selected devices, set this field to `true`. By default, this field is set to `false`.
[IMPORTANT]
====
Wiping the disk can lead to inconsistencies in data integrity if any of the following conditions is met:

* The disk is being used as swap space.
* The disk is part of a RAID array.
* The disk is mounted.

In this case, you must manually wipe the disk.
====

`thinPoolConfig`:: Contains the configuration to create a thin pool in the LVM volume group.

`name`:: Specify a name for the thin pool.

`sizePercent`:: Specify the percentage of remaining space in the LVM volume group for creating the thin pool.

`overprovisionRatio`:: Specify a factor by which additional storage can be provisioned compared to the available storage in the thin pool.
+
For example, if this field is set to 10, you can provision up to 10 times the amount of available storage in the thin pool. 

Upon creating the `LVMCluster` CR, {lvms} creates the following system-managed CRs:

> * `LVMVolumeGroup`: It is a specific type of persistent volume (PV) that is backed by an LVM volume group. It tracks the individual volume groups across multiple nodes. It also provides the back-end storage for the persistent volumes that you create. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `LVMVolumeGroup`: It is a specific type of persistent volume (PV) that is backed by an LVM volume group. It tracks the individual volume groups across multiple nodes.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-lvmcluster_{context}"]
= About the LVMCluster custom resource

After you have installed {lvms}, you must create an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) on a worker node.

You can configure the `LVMCluster` CR to perform the following actions:

* Create LVM volume groups that you can use to provision persistent volume claims (PVCs).
* Configure a list of devices that you want to add to the LVM volume groups. 

> * Configure the requirements to select the nodes on which you want to create an LVM volume group, and the thin pool configuration for the volume group.

Author: Will keep this as is. The readability scores for both the sentences are same.
Thank you for the info on the possibility of ending the sentences with a preposition. :)

> * Configure the requirements to select the nodes on which you want to create an LVM volume group, and the thin pool configuration for the volume group.

Reviewer 3: Hi sure thing. Although I actually learned today that the IBM Style guide says not to do this. I always though it was something they said you didn't have to change the sentence, but today when preparing the upcoming daily snippet material, I saw that it actually says not to update to avoid ending in a preposition:

> Do not change the word order in a sentence to avoid ending the sentence with a preposition.

This is on this page: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=medium-tone

So although it's not critical to change for today, but in the future, it would be best to avoid.

> * Configure the requirements to select the nodes on which you want to create an LVM volume group, and the thin pool configuration for the volume group.

Author: Sure! Thanks for the info :)

* Force wipe the selected devices.

You can create an `LVMCluster` CR using the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) or the {product-title} web console.

include::snippets/lvms-creating-lvmcluster.adoc[]

The `LVMCluster` CR contains the following fields:

> `deviceClasses`:: Contains the configuration to assign the local storage devices to the LVM volume groups. 

Author: Presented the info in a table format.

+
To create multiple device storage classes, create a device class for each storage class. 
+

> After creating an `LVMCluster` CR, if you add or remove a device class, the update reflects in the `LVMCluster` CR only after deleting and recreating the `TopoLVM-Node` pod. 

Reviewer: This only goes up to 4.15, 4.16 and above do not have this limitation, maybe worth a separate docs issue?

Author: Yes. It's best to have a separate doc issue for this in 4.16.

`name`:: Specify a name for the LVM volume group (VG). 
+
If this field is set to the name of a VG from the previous {lvms} installation, {lvms} recreates the resources related to that volume group in the current {lvms} installation. You can only recover the VGs but not the logical volume associated with the VG.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Before recovering the VGs from the previous {lvms} installation, ensure that the following conditions are met:

* VGs must not be corrupted.
* VGs must have the `lvms` tag. For more information on adding tags to LVMS objects, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/configuring_and_managing_logical_volumes/grouping-lvm-objects-with-tags_configuring-and-managing-logical-volumes#doc-wrapper[Grouping LVM objects with tags].
====

`fstype`:: Set this field to `ext4` or `xfs`. By default, this field is set to `xfs`.

> `default`:: Set this field to `true` to indicate that a `deviceClass` is the default. Else, you can set it to `false`. You can only configure a single default `deviceClass`. 

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> `nodeSelector`:: Contains the configuration to choose the nodes on which you want to create the LVM volume group. If this field is empty, all nodes without no-schedule taints are considered.

Author: Retained the original sentence.

     
`deviceSelector`:: Contains the configuration to specify the paths to the devices that you want to add to the LVM volume group, and force wipe the devices that are added to the LVM volume group. 
+
You can specify the device paths in the `paths` field, the `optionalPaths` field, or both. If you do not specify the device paths in both `paths` and `optionalPaths`, {lvms} adds the supported unused devices to the LVM volume group.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
After a device is added to the LVM volume group, it cannot be removed.
==== 
+
{lvms} adds the devices to the LVM volume group only if the following conditions are met:

* The device path exists.

* The device is supported by {lvms}.
+
[NOTE]
====
The devices that you want to add to the volume group must be supported by {lvms}. For information about unsupported devices, see _Devices not supported by {lvms}_ in _Additional resources_.
====
+
You can also add the path to the RAID arrays to integrate the RAID arrays with {lvms}. For more information, see _Integrating RAID arrays with {lvms}_ in _Additional resources_. 
        
`paths`:: Specify the device paths.
+

> If the device path specified in this field does not exist, or the device is not supported by {lvms}, `LVMCluster` CR creation fails with an error.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> `optionalPaths`:: Specify the device paths.

Author: Device paths can be specified in both `paths` and `optionalPaths`. No restrictions on the type of devices that can be specified here. The only difference is with how the operator responds when it finds an invalid device path. In case of paths, the operator throws an error. In case of optionalPaths, the device is just ignored.

> `optionalPaths`:: Specify the device paths.

Reviewer 3: Sure. It's fine to leave as is. What I was thinking was that it might be better to be slightly different, like "Specify the optional device paths."

+
If the device path specified in this field does not exist, or the device is not supported by {lvms}, {lvms} ignores the device without causing an error. 
        
`forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData`:: To force wipe the selected devices, set this field to `true`. By default, this field is set to `false`.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Wiping the device can lead to inconsistencies in data integrity if any of the following conditions is met:

* The device is being used as swap space.
* The device is part of a RAID array.
* The device is mounted.

> In this case, you must manually wipe the disk.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

====
+
[WARNING]
====

> If this field is set to `true`, {lvms} wipes all previous data on the devices. You must use this feature with caution.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

====

`thinPoolConfig`:: Contains the configuration to create a thin pool in the LVM volume group.

> `name`:: Specify a name for the thin pool.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

`sizePercent`:: Specify the percentage of remaining space in the LVM volume group for creating the thin pool. 
+
By default, this field is set to 90. The minimum value that you can set is 10, and the maximum value is 90.

`overprovisionRatio`:: Specify a factor by which additional storage can be provisioned compared to the available storage in the thin pool.
+
For example, if this field is set to 10, you can provision up to 10 times the amount of available storage in the thin pool.
+
To disable over-provisioning, set this field to 1.

Upon creating the `LVMCluster` CR, {lvms} creates the following system-managed CRs:

* `LVMVolumeGroup`: It is a specific type of persistent volume (PV) that is backed by an LVM volume group. It tracks the individual volume groups across multiple nodes.

> * `LVMVolumeGroupNodeStatus`: It tracks the status of the volume groups on a node.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-lvmcluster_{context}"]
= About the LVMCluster custom resource

After you have installed {lvms}, you must create an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) on a worker node.

You can configure the `LVMCluster` CR to perform the following actions:

* Create LVM volume groups that you can use to provision persistent volume claims (PVCs).
* Configure a list of devices that you want to add to the LVM volume groups. 
* Configure the requirements to select the nodes on which you want to create an LVM volume group, and the thin pool configuration for the volume group.
* Force wipe the selected devices.

You can create an `LVMCluster` CR using the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) or the {product-title} web console.

include::snippets/lvms-creating-lvmcluster.adoc[]

[discrete]
== LVMCluster custom resource configuration

> The `LVMCluster` CR fields are described in the following table:

Reviewer 3: I'd say tables plural and then just list them back-to-back. Because all of them technically make up the `LVMCluster` CR, not just this first one.

```suggestion
The `LVMCluster` CR fields are described in the following tables:
```

Author: Added all the fields in the same table. Hence, will keep it as is.

|`object`
|Contains the configuration to specify the paths to the devices that you want to add to the LVM volume group, and force wipe the devices that are added to the LVM volume group. 

You can specify the device paths in the `paths` field, the `optionalPaths` field, or both. If you do not specify the device paths in both `paths` and `optionalPaths`, {lvms} adds the supported unused devices to the LVM volume group.

[IMPORTANT]
====
After a device is added to the LVM volume group, it cannot be removed.
==== 

{lvms} adds the devices to the LVM volume group only if the following conditions are met:

* The device path exists.

* The device is supported by {lvms}.

[NOTE]
====
The devices that you want to add to the volume group must be supported by {lvms}. For information about unsupported devices, see _Devices not supported by {lvms}_ in _Additional resources_.
====

You can also add the path to the RAID arrays to integrate the RAID arrays with {lvms}. For more information, see _Integrating RAID arrays with {lvms}_ in _Additional resources_. 

|`deviceClasses.thinPoolConfig`
|`object`
|Contains the configuration to create a thin pool in the LVM volume group.

|====

[discrete]

> === deviceSelector object configuration

Reviewer 3: You might need to check with an SME, but I am pretty certain that it isn't accurate to call a subsection of a CR an "object". We usually talk about the whole CR/resource as an object.

So you might need to rethink how you word this tables for the subsections. You can probably look around the repo for how others do this

But otherwise I think that the tables are much easier to read/scan than the previous format you used

Author: Added all the fields in the same table.
